PRESIDENT TRUMP SPENT A GOOD
PART OF LAST WEEK TOUTING HIS
CAMPAIGN PLEDGE TO SPEND A
TRILLION DOLLARS TO REBUILD THE
NATION'S INFRASTRUCTURE.
BUT OTHER THAN TALKING GENERALLY
ABOUT PUBLIC-PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIPS FOR THOSE
INVESTMENTS, PRIVATIZING AIR
TRAFFIC CONTROL, AND DISMANTLING
REGULATIONS THAT CAN DELAY
CONSTRUCTION, THE WHITE HOUSE
HAS YET TO PUT FORWARD A
DETAILED PLAN.
WASHINGTON POST" REPORTER MIKE
DEBONIS IS COVERING THE ISSUE
AND JOINS ME NOW FROM
WASHINGTON.
INFRASTRUCTURE TAKES A LONG TIME
TO BUILD AND A LONG TIME TO
PLAN.
WHAT'S AT STAKE HERE?
>> AS YOU MENTIONED, THEY'RE IN
THE PIPELINE FOR YEARS AND SOME
CASES A DECADE OR MORE.
AND WHAT'S AT STAKE IS A
CERTAINTY ABOUT A PATH FORWARD
AND THE LONGER THERE IS
UNCERTAINTY, THE HARDER IT IS TO
PLAN THESE PROJECTS, AND WHAT
WE'VE SEEN IN A LOT OF CASES IS
THAT THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION IS
CREATED MORE UNCERTAINTY
PARTICULARLY SEEN THIS IN THE
REALM OF PUBLIC TRANSIT BUT
THERE'S ALSO PORT PROJECTS,
THINGS LIKE THAT, WHERE THEY
MADE MOVES PARTICULARLY IN THE
BUDGET THAT HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE
SCRATCHING THEIR HEADS.
>> GIVE ME AN EXAMPLE OF THE
CITY AND THE MUNICIPALITY
THINKING ABOUT BUILDING
SOMETHING, WAITING FOR FUNDS.
>> TRANSIT PROJECTS, THERE'S A
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PROGRAM THAT TYPICALLY SPENDS
FOUR, FIVE BILLION DOLLARS A
YEAR BUILDING TRANSIT PROJECTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
THESE AREN'T JUST BIG CITIES.
A LOT OF THESE ARE IN RED
STATES, ARIZONA, INDIANA,
NORTH CAROLINA.
THEY'VE BEEN IN THE PROCESS OVER
A COURSE OF MONTHS AND YEARS
EXPECTING TO GET A FEDERAL
CONTRIBUTION OF THOSE PROJECTS.
THE BUDGET RELEASED PROPOSES
ZEROING OUT ONE OF THESE TRANSIT
ACCOUNTS WOULD HALT SOME OF
PROJECTS IN THEIR TRACKS, AT THE
LEAST WOULD FORCE LOCALITIES TO
COME UP WITH TENS OF MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS.
>> WHAT'S THE LIKELIHOOD OF
SOMETHING LIKE THIS, A PLAN IS
PUT FORTH AND GETS THROUGH
CONGRESS, BECAUSE MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS ARE PROUD ABOUT WHAT
SORT OF DOLLARS THEY CAN GET
IN THEIR COMMUNITIES, OFTENTIMES
STATES ARE THE ONES THAT OWN
THE INFRASTRUCTURE ON THE
GROUND.
>> CONGRESS SPENDS THE MONEY,
AND THERE IS BUY IN, BY AND
LARGE AMONG LOCAL
REPRESENTATIVES, IN PLACES WHERE
THESE PROJECTS ARE HAPPENING.
THAT SAID YOU HAVE A, YOU KNOW,
MAJOR FACTION OF THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY THAT WANTS TO REDUCE
DISCRETIONARY NON-DEFENSE
SPENDING TO LOW LEVELS AND
POLITICALLY AND FOR MANY OF THEM
ON PRINCIPLE, IT'S A GOOD PLACE
TO FIND CUTS.
POLITICALLY THESE ARE, YOU
KNOW, BY AND LARGE THEIRS THE
PERCEPTION THESE ARE PROJECTS
THAT ARE GOING TO BENEFIT
DEMOCRATS, THEY'RE TYPICALLY
EVEN WHEN THEY'RE IN RED
STATES, THEY'RE IN DEMOCRATIC
POCKETS AND BIG CITIES.
POLICY-WISE, THERE'S A FEELING
AMONG DEFICIT HAWKS IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY, BUT SIMPLY
SPEAKING, PROJECTS LIKE THIS
SHOULD BE FUNDED LOCALLY, THAT
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULDN'T
HAVE A ROLE AND THESE ARE NOT
PROJECTS OF NATIONAL IMPORT.
YOU'RE RIGHT TO SAY ULTIMATELY
CONGRESS WILL HAVE THE SAY AND
PROBABLY NOT GOING TO ZERO OUT
THE PROJECTS ENTIRELY BUT THERE
WILL BE A HUGE AMOUNTS OF
PRESSURE ON PROJECTS LIKE THIS
TO SORT OF BE ON THE CHOPPING
BLOCK.
>> "WASHINGTON POST" MIKE
DEBONIS, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS, HARI.